-President Trump has been lying
about everything
from Paul Manafort's sentencing
to a meeting with
Apple CEO Tim Cook.
For more on this,
it's time for "A Closer Look."
[ Cheers and applause ]
Last week, the President's
former campaign chairman,
Paul Manafort, was sentenced
to 47 months in jail
for tax and bank fraud,
which is much less
than the 19 to 24 years
prosecutors recommended.
And to justify the lenient
sentence, the judge in the case
said something
that didn't really add up.
-The judge telling the court
just moments ago
that he believed that a sentence
of 19 to 24 years,
as was recommended
by the prosecutors in this case,
would be excessive
for Paul Manafort.
The judge then also said --
Let me read this
for you here, Wolf.
He said that Paul Manafort lived
an otherwise blameless life.
-Well...
if you take out all the stuff
he's being blamed for, sure.
I mean, Ted Bundy lived
an otherwise blameless life.
And remember, this guy...
[ Cheers and applause ]
This guy right here
stole millions of dollars,
committed tax and bank fraud,
and, in June, he went to jail
for witness tampering,
a crime he committed
while he was on house arrest
for a different crime.
The nicest thing
you can say about him
is that he's great
at multitasking.
I bet his cellmate is going to
love his chore poster.
[ Laughter ]
And Manafort's corruption
went beyond financial crimes.
He spent virtually his entire
career in Washington lobbying
on behalf of some of
the worst people in the world.
-If you look at Manafort's
long history of lobbying,
it is about as controversial
as you can get.
He has represented a gallery,
a rogue's gallery
of foreign dictators.
-The firm he helped found
developed a niche,
representing a roster
of controversial
international clients
that has been described
as the Torturers' Lobby.
-Filipino dictator Marcos,
Angolan guerrilla leader
Jonas Savimbi,
ousted Ukrainian president and
Putin ally Viktor Yanukovych.
-He lobbied for dictators,
set up something
called the Torturers' Lobby,
and he was with Bane when they
blew up that football field.
Also, let's just take a second
to note how insane
the racial disparities in our
criminal justice system are.
Paul Manafort committed
tax and bank fraud
and created something
called the Torturers' Lobby
and was sentenced to less
than four years in prison.
Compare that to what
a public defender in Brooklyn
tweeted last week.
"For context on Manafort's
47 months in prison,
my client yesterday was offered
36 to 72 months in prison
for stealing $100 worth
of quarters
from a residential
laundry room."
That's insane.
No one should go to jail
for stealing quarters
from a laundry room.
And I'm saying that,
knowing that Donald Trump
has almost certainly stolen
quarters from a laundry room.
That's why his coat
always looks like this.
It's just...
loaded down with change.
You know, in the summer, he has
a much harder time hiding it.
[ Laughter ]
Manafort wasn't a marginal
figure in Trump's orbit.
He was the President's
campaign chairman.
Just listen to that. President,
campaign, and chairman.
Each one of those words
is super-important,
and yet Republicans
talk about him
like he was assistant TO
the regional manager.
[ Cheers and applause ]
For example, here's what
Louisiana Senator John Kennedy
had to say on Sunday.
-Can you answer the question,
though, on Paul Manafort?
Because he was charged
with an array of felonies
because of the
special counsel's case.
-Number one -- Number one,
I was surprised at his sentence.
I thought it would be longer.
Number two,
as I said in the past,
Mr. Manafort is a grifter.
He used to be a partner
with Roger Stone.
Um, he's -- I'm sorry, Margaret.
He's just a sleazoid.
-A sleazoid?
You sound like one of the guys
in Biff's gang from
"Back to the Future."
You should be wearing 3D glasses
and holding a skateboard.
[ Laughter ]
Now, in sentencing Manafort,
the judge noted that the
specific charges in this case
were not directly related
to the question
of Russian collusion.
He did not say
there was no collusion,
just that this case
was not about collusion.
But that didn't stop Trump
from twisting his words anyway
when he spoke to reporters
on Friday.
-I feel very badly
for Paul Manafort.
I think it's been
a very, very tough time for him.
But if you notice,
both his lawyer,
a highly respected man,
and a very highly respected
judge --
The judge said there was
no collusion with Russia.
This had nothing to do
with collusion.
There was no collusion.
It's a collusion hoax.
It's a collusion witch hoax.
I don't collude with Russia.
-Did he just call it
a witch hoax?
[ Laughter ]
All of his catchphrases are
starting to blend together now.
Trump has the same
diction and syntax
as a spam e-mail asking for
your Social Security number.
"Help. I need a monies
for a witch hoax."
[ Cheers and applause ]
Trump has this habit of
taking other people's words
out of context and insisting
those people exonerated him
when they did no such thing,
like when his former
personal lawyer, Michael Cohen,
testified before Congress.
Cohen said he personally
did not possess
any definitive evidence
of collusion,
but Trump insisted that
what Cohen had actually said
was that there was
no collusion at all,
although he couldn't seem
to make up his mind
about whether Cohen
was a liar or not.
-He lied a lot,
but it was very interesting,
because he didn't lie
about one thing.
He said no collusion
with the Russian hoax.
And I said, "I wonder why he
didn't just lie about that, too,
like he did about
everything else."
I mean, he lied about
so many different things.
And I was actually impressed
that he didn't say,
"Well, I think
there was collusion
for this reason or that."
He didn't say that.
He said, "No collusion."
And I was...
you know, a little impressed
by that, frankly.
He could've --
He could've gone all-out.
He only went about 95%
instead of 100%.
-I love that Trump is impressed
that Cohen lied 95% of the time,
but not 100% of the time.
Trump talks about not lying the
way the rest of us talk about
those guys who climb mountains
without any equipment.
It's like,
"Well, that's impressive.
I could never do that."
Trump, of course,
is a pathological liar.
His instinct is to lie
about everything
from Russian inclusion
to the smallest
and most meaningless details.
In fact, here's an example
of one of the dumbest things
Trump has ever lied about.
You might remember that last
week this clip of Trump meeting
with the CEO of Apple, Tim Cook,
went viral.
-You've really put a big
investment in our country.
We appreciate it very much,
Tim Apple.
-That's right.
He called him Tim Apple.
Does Trump think
that when you run a company
you're named after the product?
-"Mr. President,
so, you know Bill Gates."
-"Uh, I believe
it's Bill Windows."
So, that happened last week.
Now, a normal person
would have just let it go,
written it off as a slip
of the tongue, and moved on.
But Donald Trump
is not a normal person.
And on Sunday,
the website Axios reported
that during a meeting in Florida
with Republican donors,
Trump claimed the media
were spreading fake news
when they said he called
the CEO of Apple "Tim Apple."
Trump told the donors
that he actually said
"Tim Cook Apple" really fast
and the "Cook" part
of the sentence was soft.
Okay -- of all...
"Tim Cook Apple" doesn't make
any more sense than "Tim Apple."
[ Laughter ]
[ Cheers and applause ]
"Tim Cook Apple" sounds like
how Tarzan would describe
someone making a pie.
"Tim cook apple. Tim eat apple.
Tarzan love Tim!"
Second, the story you want us to
believe is that you didn't say,
"We appreciate it very much,
Tim Apple."
You said, "We appreciate it
very much, Tim Cook Apple."
If you're going to lie,
at least improve your situation.
"Officer,
I have not been drinking!
Because I was doing
too much cocaine."
And even the people in the room
thought Trump's lie was bizarre.
According to Axios,
Republican donors in attendance
called it one of Trump's
weirdest lies ever.
"'I just thought,
why would you lie about that?'
one of the donors told me.
'It doesn't even matter.'"
No, it doesn't, but Trump lies
about stuff that doesn't matter
because he lies about
everything.
Trump lies for the same reason
Forrest Gump runs.
He just does.
"Lie, Forrest! Lie!"
[ Laughter ]
So...when that version --
when that version of the story
didn't fly,
incredibly, Trump woke up this
morning and doubled down again,
this time with
an entirely new story.
He claimed he combined
Tim Cook's name
and his company's name
because it was faster.
-Trump took to Twitter, saying,
"At a recent roundtable meeting
of business executives
and long after formally
introducing Tim Cook of Apple,
I quickly referred
to Tim plus Apple as Tim Apple
as an easy way
to save time and words.
The fake news was
disparagingly all over this.
And it became yet another
bad Trump story."
-Only Trump could claim
that he was trying
to save time and words
by writing a long tweet
that takes up time and words.
You know, if you really wanted
to save time and words,
you could just not talk at all.
Do all your campaign rallies
with duct tape over your mouth,
or at least skip a bunch of
words so it sounds like this.
-We have won,
and I am very totally crazy.
[ Cheers and applause ]
-Of course,
the best part of all of this
is that Trump now has to double
down and do it to everyone.
"Oh, there's my friend
Elon Tesla.
Oh, if it isn't Steven Movies!
And there's my buddy,
Paul Crimes."
[ Laughter ]
Everyone...
Everyone in Trump's orbit
is a habitual liar.
They lie about everything
from the dumbest things
to the most important things.
Just take Erik Prince.
He's an informal Trump advisor
and the former CEO of the
mercenary company Blackwater.
Prince testified under oath
to Congress
that he had no official role
in the Trump campaign,
but in an interview last week,
he admitted that he was present
at a secret Trump Tower meeting
in 2016
with emissaries of
several foreign governments.
And in the interview,
he claimed that he hadn't lied
to Congress,
even though he obviously did.
-How come you didn't mention
that meeting to Congress,
given it's so relevant
to their investigation?
-Uh, I did.
As part of the investigations,
I certainly disclosed
any meetings,
the very, very few I had.
-Not in the Congressional
testimony you gave to the House.
We went through it.
You didn't mention anything
about August 2016 meeting
in Trump Tower.
They specifically asked you
what context you had, and
you didn't answer that.
-I don't believe
I was asked that question.
-I've got the transcript
of the conversation here.
-Sure. I might have been --
I think I was
at Trump headquarters or the
campaign headquarters, maybe --
-Trump Tower.
August 3, 2016. You?
Don't you think that's something
important to disclose to the
House Intelligence Committee
while you're under oath?
-I did.
-You didn't.
We just went through
the testimony.
There's no mention of the Trump
Tower meeting, August 2016.
Why not?
-I don't know if they got
the transcript wrong.
-Damn.
Soon he's going to go from
"I wasn't asked that question"
to "the transcript was wrong"
to "I was just trying
to save time and words."
Trump lying about the dumbest
things is revealing because it
shows that he and his associates
will lie about anything,
from Paul Manafort
to Russian collusion
to the CEO of his
favorite company...
-Tim Apple.
-This has been "A Closer Look."
♪♪